README.md, before:

rails-js_route_dispatch
========
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/tonekk/rails-js_route_dispatch.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/tonekk/rails-js_route_dispatch)
[![Dependency Status](https://gemnasium.com/tonekk/rails-js_route_dispatch.svg)](https://gemnasium.com/tonekk/rails-js_route_dispatch)
[![Gem Version](http://img.shields.io/gem/v/rails-js_route_dispatch.svg)](https://rubygems.org/gems/rails-js_route_dispatch)
[![License](http://img.shields.io/:license-mit-blue.svg)](http://tonekk.mit-license.org)


[Check out the blog post!](http://finn.heemeyer.net/2014/10/18/rails-js/)

NOTICE: We decided to rename this gem from ``rails-js`` to ``rails-js_route_dispatch`` as it was nearly impossible to find.
The name may be somewhat long, but for us it describes the functionality appropriate.


I worked on several Rails projects and there were many cases when it felt overkill to use a framework like ``Angular`` or ``Ember``, because javascript was only needed in some parts of the application.
But by not using these frameworks I had to think of a way to *structure* the code by myself.
I came up with the conclusion to organize the javascript code like the ruby code is organized, that means: __Split up in controllers, which are split up in actions.__

## How it works
* In ``rails-js_route_dispatch`` we are able to define ``controllers``, as well as ``helpers``.
* Controllers have ``actions`` which are executed when the matching rails action is executed.
* Helpers should be clear. Pretty much like the rails helpers. There are helper per controller and global helpers.
* The gem also provides a ``view helper`` to use in your layouts, which passes the routing information to ``rails-js_route_dispatch``.

#### You start by creating an app.

```js
//= require route_dispatch

/*
 * app/assets/javascripts/application.js
 */

Rails.app({
 // Define global helpers here
 helper: function() {
 }
},
// Put in initial data
{
  foo: 'bar'
},
// A function that is executed before every action
function() {
 console.log('beforeAll() executed');
});

```
#### Create controllers accordingly.

```js

/*
 * app/assets/javascripts/controllers/users.js
 */

Rails.controller('users', {
  // actions here
  new: function(h) {
    // execute helper
    h.awesomeHelper();
  },

  index: function(h) {
    // Do the same as in new()
    this.index(h);
  }
},
{
  // helpers here
  awesomeHelper: function() {
  }
});

```


#### Use code from other controllers.
```js

/*
 * app/assets/javascripts/controllers/admin/users.js
 */

Rails.controller('admin/users', {
  new: function(h) {
    // Execute action of foreign controller
    R.action('users#new');
  },

  index: function(h) {
    // Execute foreign helper with arguments
    R.helper('users', 'awesomeHelper', 1, 2, 3);

    // Execute global helper with arguments
    R.global('helper', 1, 2, 3);
  }
},{});

```


#### Global variables without the mess.
```js
/*
 * Use R singleton everywhere
 */

// Setting
R('answer', 42);
// Multiple levels
R('a.global.variable', 'foo');

// Getting
console.log(R('a.global.variable'));
```


#### Define hooks for namespaces.
```js
/*
 * app/assets/javascripts/namespaces/admin.js
 */

Rails.namespace('admin', function() {
  // Will be executed on all admin routes (e.g. admin/users#new)
  console.log('Hello Mr. Admin');
});
```

#### For more info...
...just read in ``app/assets/javascripts/route_dispatch.js``. I tried my best and documented nearly every line of code :)

Installing
==========

Install it as any other gem by putting this to your ``Gemfile``:
```ruby
gem 'rails-js_route_dispatch'
```
In your layouts, put this line into the ``head``:
```erb
<%= route_dispatch %>
```
Also make sure to include ``route_dispatch`` in your ``application.js``. If you are using [Turbolinks](https://github.com/rails/turbolinks), make sure to include ``route_dispatch`` after ``turbolinks``.

Testing
=======

Javascript tests are in ``test/dummy/spec/javascripts/rails-js_route_dispatch_spec.js``.
They are executed using ``rake teaspoon`` (by using the [teaspoon runner](https://github.com/modeset/teaspoon)).
I'm still trying to get [travis to execute the teaspoon tests properly...](https://travis-ci.org/tonekk/rails-js_route_dispatch/builds/37740824)

Contributing
============

[Fork](https://github.com/tonekk/rails-js_route_dispatch/fork) -> Commit -> Pull Request

This project uses the [Airbnb Styleguide](https://github.com/airbnb/javascript) as our coding guideline.
We think this is a good piece of work and worth spreading.
In case of any doubts refer to the style used around.

Commit message:

Renames rails-js_route_dispatch -> rails-js-routes

README.md, after:

rails-js-routes
========
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/tonekk/rails-js-routes.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/tonekk/rails-js-routes)
[![Dependency Status](https://gemnasium.com/tonekk/rails-js-routes.svg)](https://gemnasium.com/tonekk/rails-js-routes)
[![Gem Version](http://img.shields.io/gem/v/rails-js-routes.svg)](https://rubygems.org/gems/rails-js-routes)
[![License](http://img.shields.io/:license-mit-blue.svg)](http://tonekk.mit-license.org)


[Check out the blog post!](http://finn.heemeyer.net/2014/10/18/rails-js/)

NOTICE: We decided to rename this gem from ``rails-js`` to ``rails-js-routes`` as it was nearly impossible to find.
The name may be somewhat long, but for us it describes the functionality appropriate.


I worked on several Rails projects and there were many cases when it felt overkill to use a framework like ``Angular`` or ``Ember``, because javascript was only needed in some parts of the application.
But by not using these frameworks I had to think of a way to *structure* the code by myself.
I came up with the conclusion to organize the javascript code like the ruby code is organized, that means: __Split up in controllers, which are split up in actions.__

## How it works
* In ``rails-js-routes`` we are able to define ``controllers``, as well as ``helpers``.
* Controllers have ``actions`` which are executed when the matching rails action is executed.
* Helpers should be clear. Pretty much like the rails helpers. There are helper per controller and global helpers.
* The gem also provides a ``view helper`` to use in your layouts, which passes the routing information to ``rails-js-routes``.

#### You start by creating an app.

```js
//= require routes

/*
 * app/assets/javascripts/application.js
 */

Rails.app({
 // Define global helpers here
 helper: function() {
 }
},
// Put in initial data
{
  foo: 'bar'
},
// A function that is executed before every action
function() {
 console.log('beforeAll() executed');
});

```
#### Create controllers accordingly.

```js

/*
 * app/assets/javascripts/controllers/users.js
 */

Rails.controller('users', {
  // actions here
  new: function(h) {
    // execute helper
    h.awesomeHelper();
  },

  index: function(h) {
    // Do the same as in new()
    this.index(h);
  }
},
{
  // helpers here
  awesomeHelper: function() {
  }
});

```


#### Use code from other controllers.
```js

/*
 * app/assets/javascripts/controllers/admin/users.js
 */

Rails.controller('admin/users', {
  new: function(h) {
    // Execute action of foreign controller
    R.action('users#new');
  },

  index: function(h) {
    // Execute foreign helper with arguments
    R.helper('users', 'awesomeHelper', 1, 2, 3);

    // Execute global helper with arguments
    R.global('helper', 1, 2, 3);
  }
},{});

```


#### Global variables without the mess.
```js
/*
 * Use R singleton everywhere
 */

// Setting
R('answer', 42);
// Multiple levels
R('a.global.variable', 'foo');

// Getting
console.log(R('a.global.variable'));
```


#### Define hooks for namespaces.
```js
/*
 * app/assets/javascripts/namespaces/admin.js
 */

Rails.namespace('admin', function() {
  // Will be executed on all admin routes (e.g. admin/users#new)
  console.log('Hello Mr. Admin');
});
```

#### For more info...
...just read in ``app/assets/javascripts/routes.js``. I tried my best and documented nearly every line of code :)

Installing
==========

Install it as any other gem by putting this to your ``Gemfile``:
```ruby
gem 'rails-js-routes'
```
In your layouts, put this line into the ``head``:
```erb
<%= js_routes %>
```
Also make sure to include ``routes`` in your ``application.js``. If you are using [Turbolinks](https://github.com/rails/turbolinks), make sure to include ``routes`` after ``turbolinks``.

Testing
=======

Javascript tests are in ``test/dummy/spec/javascripts/rails-js-routes_spec.js``.
They are executed using ``rake teaspoon`` (by using the [teaspoon runner](https://github.com/modeset/teaspoon)).
I'm still trying to get [travis to execute the teaspoon tests properly...](https://travis-ci.org/tonekk/rails-js-routes/builds/37740824)

Contributing
============

[Fork](https://github.com/tonekk/rails-js-routes/fork) -> Commit -> Pull Request

This project uses the [Airbnb Styleguide](https://github.com/airbnb/javascript) as our coding guideline.
We think this is a good piece of work and worth spreading.
In case of any doubts refer to the style used around.
